as i said the congo somewhat sets the
tones for this evening's program
for the bulk of the program in a few
moments we will be
listening to a speech by malcolm x
and the speech was delivered in 1964 at
black history month the
issue of africa and the historical
development of resisting
culture is something that has been
commented on by many african spokesmen
throughout the years marcus garvey who
was the leader of the
universal negro improvement association
in the
1920s to most people's opinion the
largest movement of african people
which stretched into africa and the
caribbean and south america and even had
branches at times
uh in south africa and as close here as
oakland and san jose
garvey's statements about africa might
be summed up thusly
garvey saw africa essentially as the
only place where black people could
launch a successful bid for equality
with other nations
africa was the black man's ancestral
home he was still a majority there
the continent was rich in natural
resources and with some technical help
from black people in other areas
a determined drive for equality would
have the best chances of success here
and if the black man became powerful in
africa this would necessarily raise his
status all over the world
for as garvey was fond of saying a
strong man is strong everywhere
africa for africans if the oil of africa
garvey said is good for john d
rockefeller's interest
if the rubber is beneficial to the
firestone interest
is the iron ore if the iron ore is good
enough for the carnegie trust
then surely they are of interest to us
and
garby set the tone i think which has
been picked up by
malcolm x in this particular speech
we'll listen to this evening
this particular speech has some
historical framework
behind it it was given in december of
at the audubon ballroom in harlem and it
was given
approximately one month after malcolm x
had returned to the united states
after 25 weeks abroad and approximately
about a year after his
departure from the black muslim movement
headed by
elijah muhammad and at this particular
time there were two other speakers on
the program
dick gregory and abdul rahman muhammad
babu
who was the representative of the
tanzanian government at that particular
time
the speech was sponsored by the
organization of african unity which was
the organization
that malcolm x founded and the speech
coincided with the increase of
u.s intervention into the congo many of
us who know of malcolm x know
that he was a great internationalist
that he brought a spark to the
movement in the 1950s in the 1960s that
uh certainly cannot be duplicated
yeah i think if you listen to his
comments this evening on the congo and
realize how
relevant they are in 1980 as they were
in 1964
you can understand very clearly why
malcolm x was murdered as he was in
1965.
i encourage people to look further into
the background of malcolm x
he makes in this particular speech
entitled from an album entitled the last
message
he makes some very very insightful
comments about the press
and i think if you take a look at the
recent international situations you can
see that his statements
hold true 16 years later he also makes
some statements on southern africa
specifically on the congo and he talks
about the efforts of the western powers
along with
belgium and the united nations to blunt
the original independence move
in the congo led by patrice lumumba
and by joseph casavul he talks about
shombi
and malcolm's predictions have come very
very true because
soon after shone babe was left the congo
the
leader mobutu seseko at that time joseph
mabutu
replaced toshombi and he has been very
much in the pocket of western interest
and has continued his rule of the congo
until this period
and those of you who followed zaire know
that is very very much
controlled by the international monetary
fund and has had strong connections
with south africa so i'd like people to
listen very very closely
to malcolm the comments that he's going
to make on the congo this evening
when they knew them this affair which is
which
is designed to honor outstanding black
americans is it not
you'd find nothing in the newspapers to
give the slightest hint
that this affair was going to take place
not one here
why this you see you have many
sources of news if you don't think that
they're in cahoots
watch they're all interested or none of
them are interested
it's not a staggering thing they're not
going to say anything
in van in advance that's being given by
any black people
who believe in functioning beyond the
scope
of the ground rules that are laid down
by this
by the liberal element of the power
structure
when you begin to start thinking for
yourself you they you frighten them
and they try and block you're getting to
the public for fear
that if the public listens to you then
the public won't listen to them anymore
and they've got to they got certain
negroes whom they have to keep
blowing up in the paper to make them
look like leaders so that the people
will keep on following them
no matter how many knots they get on
their head following him
this is how the man does it and if you
don't wake up and find out how he does
it i tell you
they'd be burning they'd be building gas
chambers and gas levels
pretty soon i don't mean those kind you
got at home in your kitchen
another example at the international
level of how skillfully they used this
uh trickery was in the congo
in the congo uh airplanes were
dropping bombs on african villages
african villages don't have a defense
against bombs
and the pilot can't tell who the bomb is
being dropped upon
when a bomb hits the village everything
goes and
these pilots
filled with uh driving flying planes
filled with bombs dropping these bombs
on
african villages we're destroying women
we're destroying children we're
destroying babies
you never heard any outcry over here
about that and it had started way back
in june
they were they would drop bombs on
african villages that would blow that
village apart
and everything in it man woman
child and baby no outcry
no sympathy no support no no concern
because the press didn't project it
in such a way that it would be designed
to get your sympathy
they know how to put something so that
you'll sympathize with it
and they know how to put it so you'll be
against it i'm telling you there are
masters
at it and if you don't develop the
analytical
ability to read between the lines and
what they're saying i'm telling you
again
to be building that yes ovens and before
you wake up you'll be in one of them
just like the jews ended up in gas
ovens over there in germany you're in a
society that's just as
capable of building gas ovens for black
people
as hitler's society was
this was mass murder in the congo of
women and children
and babies but there was no outcry even
from the white liberals
even from your friends why because
they made it appear that it was a
humanitarian
project they said that the planes were
being
uh flown by american trained
anti-castro cuban pilots this is
propaganda too
as soon as you hear this american train
you say oh that's all right that's
us and the anti-castro cubans oh that's
all right too because it's against
castro whoever else they're against
that's good
because castro is a monster but you see
how step by step they grab your mind
and these pilots are are hired their
salaries are paid by the united states
government
they're called mercenaries these pilots
are and
a mercenary is not someone who kills you
because he's patriotic
he kills you for blood money he's a
hired killer that's what a mercenary
means
uh and they're able to take these hired
killers
put them in american planes with
american bombs
and drop them on uh african villages
blowing tibets black men black women
black children black babies
and you black people sitting over here
cool like it doesn't even involve you
you're a fool
they'll do it to them today
and do it to you tomorrow because
you and i and they are all the same
they call it a humanitarian project and
that they're doing it in the name of
freedom
and all of this these glorious terms are
used
to pave the way in your mind for what
they're going to do then they take
shaumbi
you heard of shondy he's the worst
african that was ever born
the lowest type that was ever born
he's a murderer himself he's the
murderer of lumumba the former prime
minister
of the first and only rightful prime
minister of the congo
he's an international he's a murderer
with an international stature
as a murderer yet the united states
government went and got shown me in
spain
and put him as the uh head of the
congolese government
imagine this this is criminal here's a
man who's a murderer
so united states takes him puts him over
the congo
and supports his government with your
tax dollars
now in other words they hire him
to occupy the position as head of state
over the congo a killer he
is a hired killer himself his
salary paid by the united states
government
and he turns his first move is to bring
in south africans
who hate everything in sight
he hires those south africans to come
and kill his own congolese people
and the united states again pays their
salary
you know it's something to think about
how do you think you would feel right
now
if some congolese brothers walked up to
you they look just like you
don't think you don't look congolese you
look as much congolese as a congolese
guy
they got all kinds of congolese over
there uh
how would you feel if one of them walked
up to you and asked you about what
your government is doing in the congo i
was asked that when i was over there
but they didn't have to come to me like
that because they know where i stand
automatically anyway
and for what i'm thankful to the press
for letting everybody know where i stand
they but you have no explanation
your your your tongue stays in your
mouth and you have to then become
go to the extreme to convince them that
you don't go along with what
the united states government is doing in
the congo but
again it comes your image making comes
in comes into
uh importance here and they
justify the usage of shaumbi as the
present head of state by saying
he's the only african who can unite or
bring unity to the congo
has he brought unity to the congo but
see this is their game
and their real reason for wanting sean
be there was so that
shambi could invite them to come in no
other african
head of state would have had would have
dared to invite
outside powers so they put shaumbry
there and as soon as shonvi got there
then he invited them
to uh bring paratroopers from belgium
in the united states transport planes to
try and recapture the congo this is all
a cold-blooded
act on the part of your western powers
namely the western powers here in the
united states in england
in france and in belgium and so forth
they want the wealth of the congo plus
its strategic geographic position
[Music]
the step-by-step process that is used
was used by the press
first they fan the flame in such a
manner to create hysteria
in the mind of the public and then they
ship gears and and and fan the flame
in a manner designed to get the sympathy
of the public
and once they go from hysteria to
sympathy the next step is to get the
public to support them
in whatever act they're getting ready to
go down with you dealing with a coal
calculating international machine
that's so criminal in its objectives and
motives that
it'll be it has the seeds of its own
destruction right within it
they use the press to emphasize that
white hostages
are being held by cannibals imagine that
or white hot white priests white
missionaries white none
they don't say nuns white nuns you know
what the paper
said right here in detroit white
missionaries not just a missionary
a white nun is if there's a difference
between a white nun and a black nun
or a white priest and a black priest or
as
or or or if the
life that's in a white skin is more
valuable
than a life within a black skin this is
what they're implying
and the press go get the press when this
thing was going on and you see
what i'm talking about they're vicious
in their whiteness
but still i wouldn't judge them just
because they're white because they call
me a racist
judging by their deeds by their
conscious behavior
and you know how they've been
consciously behaving in the congo
and how they consciously behave in in
vietnam
and how they consciously behave right
now in alabama and mississippi
so you and i got to get conscious and
start behaving in a way that we can all
set this thing
before it's too late and this is what
they don't want to hear
one more thing concerning xiaomi if you
notice the
and i must go all over over there on the
african continent in order to give you a
better understanding of what's going on
right here
the next thing that uh is good to know
about
xiaomi no congolese troops have ever won
any victories
whatsoever for the present congolese
government
congolese soldiers won't even fight uh
unless they're forced to
but the fighters in the congo were the
freedom fighters
these brothers from the oriental eastern
province
and they fought with stones and sticks
and and rocks and spears and arrows
and the only time they had a gun was
when they got some soldier who had it
and they'd kill him and take his gun
but they were winning they took over
two-thirds of the congo showing you they
were fighting from their heart
whereas these other people their heart
wasn't in it and because of the fighting
spirit
of these people it will be impossible
for shelby to remain
as head of state over the congo without
uh additional troops white troops
constantly being brought in
from south africa or elsewhere but
sooner or later these troops are going
to give out and then america is going to
have to increase her truth like she did
in
in south vietnam you know she has there
she's not at war over there you know
they're only over there advising they
got about 20 000
advisors you know on the front line but
it's
it's not a wall it's just an invite
they're in an advisory capacity why they
insult the intelligence of their own
public
and uh they're going to have to end up
doing the same thing in the congo
they'll be trapped
uh they'll have to eventually send
american troops
to occupy the congo because the african
freedom fighters are going to fight
they're not going to give up one inch
without fighting back and this is
something that you should know
that they they realize now on the
african continent what's at stake
and how much uh all of these western
powers have in
common in what they're doing in cahoots
with each other behind the closed door
so on the african continent they are
training africans
to be soldiers so that they can invade
each one of these countries
and take it over and give it to their
rightful people one of the reasons
uh that one of the last things i must
say concerning the congo
not only do they not intend for the
congo to fall into african hands because
of its mineral wealth and it has
the greatest deposits of some of the
richest
elements or minerals of any other area
on this earth
they don't intend to give it up because
of its wealth another reason
they don't intend to give it up if you
look at the map you'll see that it is
uh so strategically located
geographically
wherein if a real genuine african
government were to come in power over
the congo
then it would be possible for african
troops from all countries
to invade angola which is a portuguese
possession
and when and if angola fell and it would
fall then it would only be a matter of
time
before southwest africa southern
rhodesia
and view toronto line also would fall
and it would put african troops right on
the border of south africa
and that's where they really want to get
at that man down in south africa
and the united states interests are
involved
in blocking this yes some of these
liberals who grin in your faith like
they face like
they're your best friend they got money
tied up in the congo
some of the most powerful political
figures in this country
some of them governors over states that
interest in the congo and got interest
in south africa
and got interest all over the african
continent and go there
[Music]
and as the applicants awaken and realize
this they
it makes them uh filled with the
incentive to never rest
until that exploiter is driven out
so now what effect does this have on us
why should the black man in america
uh concern himself since we've been away
from the african continent for 400 years
three or four hundred years
why should we concern ourselves what
impact does
what happened to them have upon us
number one first you have to realize
that
up until 1959 africa was dominated by
the colonial powers
and by the colonial powers of europe
having complete
control over africa they
projected the image of africa negatively
they projected africa always in a
negative light
jungles savages cannibals
nothing civilized and one and naturally
it was so negative
until you it was negative to you and me
and you and i
began to hate it we didn't want anybody
to tell us anything about africa and
much less call us an african
uh and and uh and in hating africa
and hating the african we ended up even
hating ourselves without even realizing
it
because you can't hate the roots of a
tree
and not heat the tree you can't hate
your origin
and not end up hating yourself you can't
hate africa
and not hate yourself and you show me
one of these people over here who have
been thoroughly brainwashed
who has a negative attitude toward
africa and i'll show you one that has a
negative attitude toward himself you
can't even
you can't have a negative attitude
towards your positive
attitude toward yourself and a negative
attitude toward africa
at the same time to the same degree that
your attitude that your understanding
of and attitude toward africa becomes
positive
you'll find that your understanding of
and your attitude
toward yourself will also become
positive and this is what the white man
knows
[Applause]
so they very skillfully uh made you and
me hate
our african identity our african uh
characteristics and you know yourself
that we have been the people who hated
our african characteristics
we hated our hair we hated the shape of
our nose we wanted one of those long
dog-like noses you know yeah
we hated the color of our skin
hated the blood of africa that was in
our veins
and in hating our features and our skin
and our blood why we had to end up
hating ourselves
and we hated ourselves our color became
to us a chain we felt that it was
holding us back
our color came to us became to us like a
prism
which we felt was keeping us confined
not letting us
go this way or that way and we felt that
all of these restrictions were based
solely upon our color and the
psychological
reaction to that would have to be that
as long as we felt imprisoned or chained
or
trapped by black skin black features and
black blood
uh that skin and those features and and
that blood that was holding us back
automatically had to become hateful to
us
and it became hateful to us it made us
feel
inferior it made us feel inadequate
it made us feel helpless and when we uh
fell
victim to this feeling of in inadequacy
or inferiority
or helplessness we turned to somebody
else to show us the way
we didn't have confidence in another
black man to show us the way
all black people to show us the way in
those days we didn't we didn't think a
black man could do anything
but play some harm you know some sounds
and make you happy
with some songs and in that way but in
serious things
where our food clothing and shelter was
concerned and our education was
concerned
we turned to the man we never thought in
terms of
bringing these things into existence for
ourselves we never thought in terms
of doing things for ourselves because we
felt helpless
and what made us feel helpless was our
hatred for ourselves
thank you very much this has been walter
turner for africa press review and i'll
see you two weeks
you